Hungary Radical Party Wins By-Election in Breakthrough Vote
by Zoltan Simon
Hungary's radical nationalist Jobbik party, which has surged in opinion polls in the past six months to close in on Prime Minister Viktor Orban's Fidesz, 
won its first parliamentary district in a by-election.
Lajos Rig of Jobbik won the western district of Tapolca with 35.3 percent backing, according to results from the National Election Office on Sunday with 99.1 
percent of the votes counted. The Fidesz candidate was second with 34.4 percent, followed by a challenger jointly backed by the opposition Socialist and 
Demokratikus Koalicio parties.
The win marks a breakthrough for Jobbik, which became the second-largest political party in Hungary after last year's elections. It also underscores the 
growing unpopularity of Fidesz, which lost a by-election in February that cost the ruling party its two-thirds majority in parliament. Jobbik, criticized 
by human rights groups for its anti-Roma, anti-Semitic, pro-Russian and anti-European Union platform, is trying to tone down its rhetoric to woo mainstream 
voters to win power in 2018, party chief Gabor Vona told Magyar Nemzet newspaper last month.
'Jobbik's success shows that a critical mass of voters no longer view the party as radical, analysts at the Political Capital research institute in Budapest 
said in an e-mail. There's no limit to the party's growth.
Last April, Orban managed to retain his two-thirds majority and Jobbik failed to capture any of the 106 districts in parliamentary elections, winning instead 
a large share of party-list votes for its many second- and third-place finishes in districts.
Tide Turns
Since Orban's re-election, Fidesz has plunged in polls as the government battled corruption allegations, faced street protests against a spate of new taxes 
and encountered criticism over an energy deal with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Jobbik is managing to lure disillusioned Fidesz voters, according to a report in the April 9 edition of HVG weekly, based on a Median poll. Median found that 
a fifth of Jobbik backers said they had voted for Fidesz last year.
Fidesz's support fell to 24 percent among eligible voters in March from 36 percent a year ago. Jobbik was second with 15 percent and the Socialist Party came 
third with 11 percent, according to the poll.
Voters said enough, they said no to Viktor Orban, no to Fidesz, Vona said at a victory rally in Tapolca on Sunday, according to MTI state news service.
Super-Majority
In February, Orban's candidate lost a by-election in the Veszprem district, which neighbors Tapolca. That district was won by an independent candidate backed 
by opposition parties excluding Jobbik. The loss cost Orban the super-majority on which he had relied since 2010 to pass major legislation, including a new 
constitution, over the objections of the opposition.
Jobbik seeks to preserve its core values while adopting a measured, calm voice to attract mainstream voters, MTI reported, citing Vona. The party leader said 
he would prove wrong those who think of Jobbik as an extremist, Nazi party, according to his March 28 Magyar Nemzet interview.
Few of the thousands of people who took part in the annual march to remember the Holocaust in Budapest on Sunday were convinced of the makeover of Jobbik, which 
on its website still calls for resisting Zionist Israels quest for world domination, starting debt restructuring talks, fighting the EU's colonial policies 
and forging a closer alliance with Iran, Russia and Turkey.
Today, the world sees Hungary and they see Jobbik, Ronald S. Lauder, president of the World Jewish Congress, told participants at the Holocaust memorial event. 
And when businessmen want to invest in Hungary, they also see Jobbik and they're afraid to come. Jobbik hurts Hungary. Do not allow a small percentage of the 
population to destroy Hungary.
