TOGETHER WE'LL MAKE GREAT BRITAIN GREATER STILL:
 
Cameron hails shock Tory outright majority as Miliband, Clegg and Farage all QUIT. 
SNP wins near clean-sweep of seats in Scotland
FINAL RESULT: Tories 331 (up 25), Labour 232 (down 24), SNP 56 (up 50), Lib Dems 8 (down 48), Ukip 1 (down 1) 
David Cameron has secured an overall Commons majority, vowing to implement the Tory manifesto in full
In the best Conservative result for more than 20 years, Prime Minister visited the Queen to confirm his victory
Ed Miliband resigned with immediate effect after taking Labour to its worst result for three decades under Kinnock
Nigel Farage resigned as Ukip leader after failing to become an MP in Thanet South but could stage a comeback
Lib Dems are left with only 8 MPs, leading Nick Clegg to resign after a 'cruel and punishing' night for his party
Big political names ousted by voters include Ed Balls, Vince Cable, Ed Davey, Jo Swinson and Esther McVey
Nicola Sturgeon's SNP swept to a stunning victory across Scotland, winning all but three of Scotland's 59 seats  

David Cameron today vowed to make Great Britain 'greater still' as he set out how he will use his shock outright Tory majority to ensure the 'good life is in 
reach for everyone who's willing to work and do the right thing'.
The Prime Minister used a statement outside Number 10 to pay tribute to both Labour's Ed Miliband and his former Lib Dem deputy Nick Clegg who have both 
resigned after suffering heavy losses in one of the most unpredictable election results for a generation. 
The three political leaders then emerged, barely an hour later, to stand side by side at the Cenotaph to commemorate the 70th anniversary of VE Day. 
Mr Cameron had earlier walked out the doors of Number 10 to declare he was forming a majority Tory government after routing Labour and the Lib Dems in the 
biggest electoral shock in living memory.
The PM returned to Downing Street with his wife Samantha after making the short trip to Buckingham Palace for a meeting with the Queen to confirm what he 
described as the 'sweetest victory of all'.
Big political names including Ed Balls, Vince Cable, Ed Davey, Doulgas Alexander, David Laws, Jim Murphy and Esther McVey all lost their seats as the political
map of Britain was dramatically redrawn with vast swathes of Tory blue and SNP yellow.
In an incredible night of political drama, Labour suffered a bloodbath in Scotland and failed to make any gains in England. Mr Miliband said he accepted 
'absolute and total responsibility' for the electoral disaster, and resigned with immediate effect. His deputy Harriet Harman also announced she will stand 
aside.
Mr Clegg, who was left as just one of eight MPs to survive the near-destruction of the Lib Dems, also resigned - admitting he had led the party to its worst 
ever defeat.
It came after Ukip's Nigel Farage threw in the towel within minutes of receiving confirmation that he had lost his bid to enter Parliament. But in a surprise 
announcement Mr Farage suggested he could return as party leader in the Autumn.
Mr Cameron said he would use the 331 MPs he will have in the Commons to implement the Tory manifesto in full, promising more apprenticeships, income tax cuts 
and an in-out referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.
But he also signaled that he would sign off a massive devolution of powers to Scotland, after Nicola Sturgeon's SNP stunned everyone to win 56 of 59 seats in 
Scotland.



