Richard Nixon resigns after Watergate
By William Mullen

The botched 1972 burglary of the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee in Washington's Watergate complex 
led two years later to an unprecedented event in American history: the resignation, on this date, of a president.
 Republican Richard Nixon's tearful farewell to the nation had the earmarks of Greek tragedy. 
 Having won his second term by the biggest landslide in history, Nixon was hounded from office by public outrage and 
 the threat of impeachment.
Chicago and the Midwest had been strongholds of Nixon support as the drama of political shenanigans, intrigue, 
cover-up and betrayal unfolded. 
That support dropped away after April 30, 1974. That was the day Nixon, forced by congressional pressure, 
released a 1,308-page transcript of edited Watergate-related conversations between him and his key aides.


The transcript led the Tribune to publish one of the most extraordinary editions in newspaper history. 
The Tribune was the only newspaper in the country that decided to print the entire, 246,000-word transcript 
the next day. It was a herculean undertaking, marshaling the effort of hundreds of Tribune secretaries, office clerks, 
reporters, editors and printers to copy and typeset the text in a few hours in an era before the widespread use of 
computers. The 44-page special section was added to the 80-page Wednesday paper.

Tribune Editor Clayton Kirkpatrick, who spearheaded the effort, had long admired Nixon's political leadership. 
Like many Americans, however, the contents of the transcript changed Kirkpatrick's mind. He was a principal 
author of a devastating editorial on May 9, titled "Listen, Mr. Nixon . . . " It began: "We saw the public man 
in his first administration, and we were impressed. Now in about 300,000 words we have seen the private man, and 
we are appalled." The editorial called for Nixon to be impeached or to resign, citing the transcript's revelations 
of White House treachery and amorality. The loss of the staunchly Republican newspaper's support was particularly 
disheartening to Nixon. It was a signal that middle America had abandoned him, helping to clear the path to his 
resignation.