Prices Are Down, but Saudis Keep Oil Flowing
By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and STANLEY REED
HOUSTON — The international cartel of oil producers has long followed 
the same basic strategy. When the market was soft, the group slashed production 
to raise prices.

But Saudi Arabia, the heavyweight of the Organization of the Petroleum 
Exporting Countries, has a new agenda. It is now less concerned 
about the price of crude oil in the global markets and more concerned 
about delivering fuel to its growing economy.

The shift is upending the traditional market dynamics that have 
influenced the direction of oil prices for decades.

While American producers are pulling back in the 
face of the current weak prices, Saudi Arabia, the largest OPEC producer by far, 
has been pumping more and more barrels. Saudi Arabia’s daily production 
in March and April nearly equaled its record output in 1980 when prices were soaring.

The country’s allies, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, are also drilling at 
record rates, while Iraq is shrugging off widespread civil conflict to increase production. Even Iran is preparing plans to develop more oil fields.
The surging output has taken much of the mystery out of what the delegates of the 
12 OPEC countries will do when they assemble in Vienna this week to set production 
levels for the next six months. They have already pushed the cartel’s output 
3 percent above the current target, and production appears to be heading even higher.

The acute pressure to cut production is also off. Oil prices, after a 
sharp drop over the last year, have stabilized somewhat at more than $60 a barrel.

“No cut is coming,” said René G. Ortiz of Ecuador, a former secretary general of 
OPEC. “Each and every country, and particularly the Saudis and the other monarchies 
of the gulf, will protect their market share and increase their market share as much 
as possible.”

For decades, Saudi Arabia was the primary force that made OPEC the swing producer 
in global markets.

After Saudi Arabia’s production peaked in 1980, it cut supplies later in the decade 
and again in the 1990s to prop up prices. The Saudis followed the same playbook 
when oil prices briefly sank during the 2008 global financial crisis and the
 economic slump the next year. When political turmoil rocked Libya, another 
 producer, during the Arab Spring, Saudi Arabia increased production to keep markets 
 and its own revenue stable.

Now, Saudi Arabia’s role — and the broader market — is evolving.