'It's terrible when you lose an old friend': Roger Moore leads tributes as Hammer Horror and Lord of the Rings star Sir Christopher Lee dies at 93
Actor died in hospital after being treated for heart and respiratory problems
He found fame as Dracula and later starred in Lord of the Rings trilogy
Also appeared in a string of cult classics such as The Wicker Man
Sir Christopher was married to his wife Birgit for more than half a century 
By HUGO GYE

Film legend Sir Christopher Lee has died at the age of 93, prompting an outpouring of grief from Hollywood stars.
The actor - who found fame in the Hammer Horror films before becoming known to a new generation through his role in fantasy blockbusters - had been treated for heart failure and respiratory problems in hospital.
He died at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London on Sunday morning after three weeks of treatment, but his widow decided to withhold the news until today so family and friends could be informed.
His Bond co-star Roger Moore said: 'It's terrible when you lose an old friend, and Christopher Lee was one of my oldest. We first met in 1948.'
Sir Christopher played Dracula in a series of classic films produced by Hammer Horror, and played Bond villain Scaramanga in 1974's The Man With the Golden Gun, starring Mr Moore.
In later life, he kept himself in the public eye with his roles in Lord of the Rings, where he played evil wizard Saruman, and the Star Wars prequels.
Some of his most acclaimed performances came in cult films - Sir Christopher starred in The Wicker Man, about a remote community living on a Scottish island, and Jinnah, a biopic about the founder of Pakistan. 

After the news broke today, stars and fans paid tribute to the actor whose influence spanned several generations thanks to his more than 200 films.
Jonathan Ross said: 'So sad to hear that Sir Christopher Lee has died. A great actor, a great star, a surprisingly good singer and a lovely lovely man.'
Comedian Omid Djalili wrote on Twitter: 'Scared the living daylights out of me for years. And I loved him for it. RIP Christopher Lee.'

And Boris Johnson added: 'Really sad to hear about the death of Christopher Lee, one of the greatest British actors and a master of the macabre.'
David Cameron made a reference to the death of Ron Moody, who famously played Fagin, saying: 'I'm saddened by the deaths of Sir Christopher Lee and Ron Moody. Both starred in films that are treasured by millions.'
His Lord of the Rings co-star Dominic Monaghan wrote: 'So so sorry to hear that Christopher Lee has passed away. He was a fascinating person. Threw a Bic pen into a tree in front of me.' 
Sir Christopher was married for 54 years to Birgit Kroencke, a Danish former model. The couple have one daughter, Christina.
He served in the Special Forces during the Second World War, but always refused to discuss what he had done during the war, saying he was bound by an oath of secrecy. 
The actor hinted at his military expertise during the filming of a gory scene in Lord of the Rings, when he asked director Peter Jackson: 'Peter, have you ever heard the sound a man makes when he’s stabbed in the back? Well, I have, and I know what to do.'

As well as his acclaimed acting career, he had a sideline as a heavy metal singer, releasing four albums in the past two decades, two of which were concept albums about the medieval emperor Charlemagne.
He also unmasked himself as an unlikely Tory in later life, speaking out in support of Michael Howard, William Hague and David Cameron. 
Sir Christopher's appearance in Lord of the Rings was the culmination of a life-long dream - he was such a fan of the books that he read them every year, and had once met J.R.R. Tolkien.
His only regret was that he was be that time too old to play Gandalf, a more energetic role, and had to settle for the portrayal of the powerful but twisted 'white wizard' Saruman. 
Sir Christopher was awarded the CBE in 2001, and was knighted six years ago for services to drama and charity, although due to his age he was excused from the duty to kneel.
His final film appearance is set to be in Angels of Notting Hill, a comedy about the clash of the everyday with celestial beings.
The actor refused to retire even in his 90s, once saying: 'When I die I want to die with my boots on.'

