dummy	dummy	0	0	11-Year-Old Tanishq Abraham Graduates From California College .
dummy	dummy	0	0	An 11-year-old California boy donned a cap and gown on Wednesday to receive a college degree .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Tanishq Abraham is the youngest person to graduate from American River College in Sacramento , California , this year , according to NBC affiliate KCRA .
dummy	dummy	0	0	And he may be the youngest person to graduate from the school in its 60-year history .
dummy	dummy	0	0	`` The assumption is that he 's the all-time youngest , '' American River College spokesman Scott Crow told NBC Bay Area on Thursday .
dummy	dummy	0	0	`` But we do n't have all the archives to completely confirm .
dummy	dummy	0	0	He was definitely the youngest this year . ''
dummy	dummy	0	0	And yet Abraham told KCRA the milestone was n't `` much of a big thing for me . ''
dummy	dummy	0	0	Abraham , who joined MENSA when he was only four years old , was home-schooled after feeling `` bored '' in his classes , according to NBC Bay Area .
dummy	dummy	0	0	He graduated high school last June at age 10 , after completing California 's early-exit high school exam .
dummy	dummy	0	0	He even received a congratulatory message from President Barack Obama and several California officials .
dummy	dummy	0	0	His mother , Taji Abraham , said he has always been ahead of the class .
dummy	dummy	0	0	`` Even in kindergarten he was pretty ahead , a few years ahead and then it just went from there , '' she told KCRA .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Tanishq Abraham said some of the students at the college `` were intimidated '' by him but a lot of others `` were really happy '' to have a kid in their classes .
dummy	dummy	0	0	Abraham graduated with three associate degrees from the college , according to a post on his Twitter profile .
dummy	dummy	0	0	The degrees are in math and physical science , general science and language studies , according to NBC Bay Area .
dummy	dummy	0	0	On his college graduation cap , Abraham wore his favorite `` Toy Story '' quote : `` 2 Infinity and Beyond . ''
dummy	dummy	0	0	As for what comes next for the child prodigy , Abraham said : `` I want to become a doctor , but I also want to become a medical researcher , and also the president of the United States . ''
